# Azure-DevOps-KB
Knowledge base for Azure and DevOps


Services
Migration
VM - 1.create migration project, Install migrate collecter tool and discover the onpremises VMs
     2. Create Assesment, Create Group and add vms into that group, check Azure readiness(Edit properties,Export assessment as excel)
     3 Storage account, virtual network, recovery Services vault(Preparing to recieve replication data)
     4 in Recovery service vault, -> site recovery -> 1. prepare Infrastructure 
                                                      2. Deployment Planing (Which is already done) 
                                                      3 Source 
                                                      4 Target 
                                                      5 replication settings(replicaton policy)
     5 replicate selected VMs and its properties in specific virtual network
     6 crating recovery plan to automate the steps to bring the server up and running simulataniously or customize the steps 
     7 Test failover and verfy the componets assigned by Azure. Make the changes if needed.
SQL
Apps
Storage
ASR Limitation

Networrking
UDR (User Define Routes) - You can create custom, or user-defined, routes in Azure to override Azure's default system routes, or to add additional routes to a subnet's route table. 
                              In Azure, you create a route table, then associate the route table to zero or more virtual network subnets.
NSG
Load Balancer
Peering
Application Gateway
VPN

VM Deployment
Create VM image
Create VM from image
Availability set - Availability sets ensure that the VMs you deploy on Azure are distributed across multiple isolated hardware nodes in a cluster. 
                    Doing this ensures that if a hardware or software failure within Azure happens, only a subset of your VMs are impacted and that your overall solution remains available and operational
Update domain  - when on host patching will be rebooted and our guest OS may reboot. still a subset will availble for our operations.(5 instance)
Fault domain  - If any hardware or software failure in Azure, still a subset availble (3 instance)
Autoscaling   - Autoscale allows you to have the right amount of resources running to handle the load on your application. 
                It allows you to add resources to handle increases in load and also save money by removing resources that are sitting idle.
                You specify a minimum and maximum number of instances to run and add or remove VMs automatically based on a set of rule
                
Storage
Blob
     Page blob - Blobcan upto 8 TB in size. Vms use this blob for OS and Data disks
     Block blob - ideally for documents and media files. 50000 blocks * 100M(each)=4.75TB
     Append blob -Similar like Block blob. Optimzed with append operations,so they can used for logging scenarios.50000block*4mb(each)=195 GB
File - Replace or complement for on-premise file server
Tables -Azure Table storage is a service that stores structured NoSQL data in the cloud, providing a key/attribute store with a schemaless design
queues 
     Creating a backlog of work to process asynchronously
     Passing messages from an Azure web role to an Azure worker role
Disks
     Standard- HDD, LRS
     Premium- SSD, GRS, RA-GRS
     Unmanged disks- Unmanaged disks are the traditional type of disks that have been used by VMs. 
                     With these, you create your own storage account and specify that storage account when you create the disk.
                            -There is a chance to missout scalabality targets like IO operations  
     Managed Disks - handles the storage account creation/management in the background for you
                        and ensures that you do not have to worry about the scalability limits of the storage account
     
Database
MSSQL
Other DBs

Backup
VM
Apps
DB
Storage
Configuration

Azure Automation
ARM Template
Runbooks
Powershell DSC
Azure Roles 
     (https://yourstory.com/2012/02/step-by-step-guide-to-create-first-windows-azure-application/)
     Web role - Web Role takes HTTP input and Process it. It gives output as HTTP Response. It takes input from user via a user interface.
     Worker role - Worker Role runs in the background. It is used to perform some background task. It does not take input from user. It takes input from Azure Storage or web Role.

Monitoring
OMS
App dynamics
Application insights

Security
RBAC (IAM)
ADFS  -     AD FS provides simplified, secured identity federation and Web single sign-on (SSO) capabilities. 
            Federation with Azure AD or O365 enables users to authenticate using on-premises credentials and access all resources in cloud. 
Keyvault

Patching

Others
Azure resource policy - Azure Policy is a service in Azure that you use to create, assign and, manage policy definitions. 
                        Policy definitions enforce different rules and actions over your resources, so those resources stay compliant with your corporate standards and service level agreements.
                        * Free- policy applied for new resources
                        * Standard - Policy apply for existing and new resources


cloud sync
file sync
vm replication
Hybrid AD repliation
